Grant Ross
Software Development for Engineers (ME 599)
Term Project Proposal
Malawi Sensor Suite Software Integration
Summary:
	For Dr. Niemeyer in Software development for Engineers the term project plan is to further develop software that integrates different types of cooking sensor devices. Last term I was in Malawi working with these sensors to distinguish differences in emissions and fuel consumption for different implementation technologies. Taking this information for 240 different data sets from 5 different sensors over 3 months requires parsing and software. Additionally, in the future other sensor suite customers are going to use this software through a web portal.  
Background: 
	The suites of sensors were developed by OSU partner Climate Solutions Consulting. These sensors are the FUEL (measures the weight of fuel consumption), HAPEx (light scattering Particulate Matter sensor), uPump (gravimetric pump to measure PM 2.5), and EXACT (infrared temperature sensor). This code and software development being proposed is going to be built upon a previous Graduate Student and partners. My contribution is focused on heavily modifying the methodology and algorithms that were previously taken to better finding these metrics and expand. The previous Graduate Student relied on a different study that was not as complex as this new set. The work I am proposing is looking at a larger test set, different region, different sensors, new technology, and different procedures. 
	Previous software was developed and relied on work that used half as many sensors, a quarter of the households, different cookstove uses and design, and occurred in a different region of the world. For example, the algorithm developed beforehand was based upon households that had a fire for the entire length of the day. This was not the case in Malawi where the algorithm needs to account for the different habits. Additionally, Malawi’s study incorporated additional uPump, Hapex, power banks, solar panels, lights, and power meters.
Current and Future Work:
	In the future this software and all the packages are going to be developed and re-coded with “R”. The end goal is for consumers to buy this sensor suite from Climate Solutions to test and run their own cookstove implementation techniques. The end data collection would then be loaded online through a portal to read out current changes with the different implantation. Currently, this portal is not developed and is the work of myself to continue this process and create a result. 
	As of right now I have written three scripts that take in an early account of the partial information from the study. These scrips are written in python and use Numpy, scipy, matplotlib, seaborn, and pandas. There is still an incredible amount of work that needs to be done. Work that includes gathering a 475-question questionnaire for each 240 sets. Receive uPump information to combine with HAPEx information to get a particulate coefficient for each 240 set. Write new algorithms that incorporate the missing data, and emissions slope. Lastly, the scripts that I have already written will have to be transferred to use functions and files need to be ran automatically. 
